Docker Desktop 4.6.0 release notes (#14361)
docker/docker.github.io: desktop/mac/release-notes/index.md

> chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/main/arm64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-arm64){:
> .button .primary-btn }

### New

- Virtiofs released as an experimental feature
- Added volumes UI bulk removal

### Upgrades

- [Compose v2.3.2](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.3.2)
- [containerd v1.4.13](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.4.13)
- [runc v1.0.3](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/releases/tag/v1.0.3)
- [Go 1.17.8](https://golang.org/doc/go1.17)
- [Linux kernel 5.10.47](https://hub.docker.com/layers/docker/for-desktop-kernel/5.10.92-850089fd41a54a4b84338aa3a118f2197a10ffd9/images/sha256-032232c6e91271035422dc89834fc01339597b0568b4868b1cfeef411a63d17d?context=explore)

### Bug fixes and minor changes

> - Improved the error message from `docker build` when using Registry Access Management.

Author: @djs55 any more details about this? What difference should it make for users?

Reviewer: Before it would say something like "I/O timeout". After it says: "Access to ... is restricted by your Docker organization. To access this registry, ask your Docker administrator to add it to your organization's allowed registries."

Perhaps we could say something like
- When Registry Access Management is enabled and a Dockerfile references a blocked registry, the error from `docker build` explains the problem and tells the developer how to resolve it

> chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/main/arm64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-arm64){:
> .button .primary-btn }

### New

- Virtiofs released as an experimental feature
- Added volumes UI bulk removal

### Upgrades

- [Compose v2.3.2](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.3.2)
- [containerd v1.4.13](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.4.13)
- [runc v1.0.3](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/releases/tag/v1.0.3)
- [Go 1.17.8](https://golang.org/doc/go1.17)

> - [Linux kernel 5.10.47](https://hub.docker.com/layers/docker/for-desktop-kernel/5.10.92-850089fd41a54a4b84338aa3a118f2197a10ffd9/images/sha256-032232c6e91271035422dc89834fc01339597b0568b4868b1cfeef411a63d17d?context=explore)

Reviewer 2: 5.10.92

### Security

> - CVE-2022-0847

Reviewer 3: Can we possibly change to:

`Fixed [CVE-2022-0847](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-0847), aka “Dirty Pipe”, an issue that could enable attackers to modify files in container images on the host, from inside a container`

Reviewer 2: I think this would allow attackers to accesss/change files on the VM or on other containers, but not on the host itself (eg Windows/macOS are not at risk). Attackers would get the equivalent of a privileged container. The fact that DD uses a VM adds some level of mitigation.

Author: Changed it to "… an issue that could enable attackers to modify files on the VM or other containers, from inside a container." following @fredericdalleau’s remark.

### New

> - Virtiofs released as an experimental feature

Reviewer 3: Could we possible change this to:

* "Docker Desktop 4.6.0 gives macOS users the option of enabling a new experimental file sharing technology called virtiofs. During testing virtiofs has been shown to drastically reduce the time taken to sync changes between the host and VM, leading to substantial performance improvements for macOS users. As an example, enabling virtiofs has been shown to reduce the time taken to run DB imports by up to 98%."

"The Docker Desktop 'Volumes' UI now offers the ability to efficiently clean up volumes via multi-select checkboxes".

For volumes UI bulk removal, I unfortunately don't have enough context to flesh that out

Reviewer 4: wonderful, this is perfect, thanks!

> - Docker Desktop 4.6.0 gives macOS users the option of enabling a new experimental file sharing technology called virtiofs. During testing virtiofs has been shown to drastically reduce the time taken to sync changes between the host and VM, leading to substantial performance improvements for macOS users. As an example, enabling virtiofs has been shown to reduce the time taken to run DB imports by up to 98%.

Reviewer 2: I'd rather not give numbers here. This would deceives users that don't understand why their workflow in not improved and give us support request back for nothing.

Reviewer 2: There is a known issue for virtiofs. Currently multi user scenarios may face caching issues: if user 1 queries the file and then user 2 queries the file, it will be owned by user 1. Users using this kind of setup may see "Permission Denied issues"

Reviewer 3: ok agreed that release notes is perhaps not the best place for this sort of marketing blurb !

Reviewer 5: Can we also link to https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/#experimental-features from this section?

Author: Is this the correct link? I can’t find where it points to 🤔

Reviewer 5: Yes. It points to the Experimental features section. This is added as part of PR-14375. See the preview here - https://deploy-preview-14375--docsdocker.netlify.app/desktop/mac/#experimental-features

Author: Oh right! So where do you advise we add the link in the text above?

Author: OK. What’s the relative link from the release notes? Is it `../#experimental-features`?

Reviewer 5: @mat007 It is `../index.md#experimental-features`

> - Docker Desktop 4.6.0 gives macOS users the option of enabling a new experimental file sharing technology called virtiofs. During testing virtiofs has been shown to drastically reduce the time taken to sync changes between the host and VM, leading to substantial performance improvements for macOS users. As an example, enabling virtiofs has been shown to reduce the time taken to run DB imports by up to 98%.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Docker Desktop 4.6.0 gives macOS users the option of enabling a new experimental file sharing technology called virtiofs. During testing virtiofs has been shown to drastically reduce the time taken to sync changes between the host and VM, leading to substantial performance improvements for macOS users. There are know issues with multi users containers, see below.
```

> - The Docker Desktop 'Volumes' UI now offers the ability to efficiently clean up volumes via multi-select checkboxes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggest
The Docker Dashboard Volumes Management feature now offers the ability to efficiently clean up volumes via multi-select checkboxes.
```

> - The Docker Desktop 'Volumes' UI now offers the ability to efficiently clean up volumes via multi-select checkboxes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Docker Dashboard Volumes Management feature now offers the ability to efficiently clean up volumes via multi-select checkboxes.
```

Reviewer 4: I think we may want to refer to it this way!

### Upgrades

- [Compose v2.3.3](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.3.3)
- [containerd v1.4.13](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.4.13)
- [runc v1.0.3](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/releases/tag/v1.0.3)
- [Go 1.17.8](https://golang.org/doc/go1.17)
- [Linux kernel 5.10.104](https://hub.docker.com/layers/docker/for-desktop-kernel/5.10.104-379cadd2e08e8b25f932380e9fdaab97755357b3/images/sha256-7753b60f4544e5c5eed629d12151a49c8a4b48d98b4fb30e4e65cecc20da484d?context=explore)

### Bug fixes and minor changes

- Improved the error message from `docker build` when using Registry Access Management.
- Fixed uploading diagnostics when an HTTPS proxy is set.

> - Fixed the systray menu not displaying all menu items after starting Docker Desktop. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6192](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6192).

Author: @trungutt @StefanScherer should this one be listed for Windows as well?

Reviewer 6: Only Mac users complained on it. Somehow the Swift backend is slowed to start on slow Mac machine. In theory, it could have happened on Windows as well, but no Windows users complain about that

- Fixed a regression about Docker Desktop not starting in background anymore. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6167](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6167).

> - Fixed Docker Desktop Dock icon missing. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6173](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6173).

Author: @trungutt @StefanScherer should this one be listed for Windows as well?

Reviewer 6: Yes, it happened on Mac and Windows, (my comment above ☝️ ). I put here different link for each

- Fixed Docker Desktop Dock icon missing. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6173](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6173).
- Fixed Docker Desktop Dock icon missing. Fixes [docker/for-win#12573](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12573).

- Used speed up block device access when using the experimental `virtualization.framework`. See [benchmarks](https://github.com/docker/roadmap/issues/7#issuecomment-1050626886).
- Increased default VM memory allocation to half of physical memory (min 2 GB, max 8 GB) for better out-of-the-box performances.
- Fixed copying text from terminal in Quick Start Guide. Fixes [docker/for-win#12444](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12444).
- When Registry Access Management is enabled and a Dockerfile references a blocked registry, the error from docker build explains the problem and tells the developer how to resolve it.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

### Known issues
- After enabling virtiofs, multi user scenarios may face caching issues: if user 1 queries the file and then user 2 queries the file quickly after, it will be owned by user 1. These issues may take the form of "Permission Denied" errors returned to system calls.
```

Reviewer 3: Thanks @fredericdalleau, this looks good. Could we also briefly explain 1). what is a multi user scenario and 2). why it occurs, so that the reader has a little more detail before the 'After enabling virtiofs...' paragraph.

Author: I was also wondering what were `user 1` and `user 2` here in this context?

Reviewer 5: @christophermclellan @mat007 Would the following clarify the caching issue

"After enabling virtiofs, containers with multiple users accessing the same set of files may experience caching issues. For example, if a user queries a file and another user tries to access the same file immediately, the second user will get a "Permission Denied" error."

Author: I’m a little confused as to what are these two users, Docker Desktop is a mono-user application. 🤔 
@fredericdalleau would you care to explain?

Reviewer 5: LGTM. Thank you @djs55

### Security

> - Fixed [CVE-2022-0847](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-0847), aka “Dirty Pipe”, an issue that could enable attackers to modify files in container images on the host, from inside a container.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Fixed [CVE-2022-0847](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-0847){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}, aka “Dirty Pipe”, an issue that could enable attackers to modify files in container images on the host, from inside a container.
```

### New

> - Docker Desktop 4.6.0 gives macOS users the option of enabling a new experimental file sharing technology called virtiofs. During testing virtiofs has been shown to drastically reduce the time taken to sync changes between the host and VM, leading to substantial performance improvements for macOS users. As an example, enabling virtiofs has been shown to reduce the time taken to run DB imports by up to 98%.

Reviewer 5: Should we use VirtioFS to be consistent with how we refer to this feature within Docker Desktop?

Author: That’s odd, because I had actually checked how it’s spelled, see https://virtio-fs.gitlab.io/ and it seems it’s `virtiofs` in the middle of a sentence and `Virtiofs` at the start?

Reviewer 5: True. I referred to the same site for the correct usage, but it seems like we have used it as VirtioFS in the UI. So, the Docs also use VirtioFS as the per the UI. Maybe we can update the UI (and Docs) in the next release?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/47779042/158223210-7cfa8d47-76c2-4cd3-b0a6-4ffc10c82029.png)

Reviewer 5: CC @jerae-duffin

Author: Sure, I’m fine either way. Should I change to VirtioFS here, then?

Reviewer 5: Yes pls. Could you change to VirtioFS?

- [Qemu 6.2.0](https://wiki.qemu.org/ChangeLog/6.2)

### Bug fixes and minor changes

- Fixed uploading diagnostics when an HTTPS proxy is set.
- Fixed the systray menu not displaying all menu items after starting Docker Desktop. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6192](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6192).
- Fixed a regression about Docker Desktop not starting in background anymore. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6167](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6167).
- Fixed missing Docker Desktop Dock icon. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6173](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6173).
- Made checking for updates from the systray menu open the Software updates settings section.
- Used speed up block device access when using the experimental `virtualization.framework`. See [benchmarks](https://github.com/docker/roadmap/issues/7#issuecomment-1050626886).
- Increased default VM memory allocation to half of physical memory (min 2 GB, max 8 GB) for better out-of-the-box performances.
- Fixed copying text from terminal in Quick Start Guide. Fixes [docker/for-win#12444](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12444).

> - When Registry Access Management is enabled and a Dockerfile references a blocked registry, the error from docker build explains the problem and tells the developer how to resolve it.

Author: I’ll remove it, thanks!
